Q 
In the following passage from Cormac McCarthyís novel The Crossing (1994), the narrator describes a dramatic experience. Read the passage carefully. Then, in a well-organized essay, show how McCarthyís techniques convey the impact of the experience on the main character. 
By the time he reached the first talus[1] slides under the tall escarpments[2] of the Pilares the dawn was not far to come. He reined the horse in a grassy swale and stood down and dropped the reins. His trousers were stiff with blood. He cradled the wolf in his arms and lowered her to the ground and unfolded the sheet. She was stiff and cold and her fur was bristly with the blood dried upon it. He walked the horse back to the creek and left it standing to water and scouted the banks for wood with which to make a fire. Coyotes were yapping along the hills to the south and they were calling from the dark shapes of the rimlands above him where their cries seemed to have no origin other than the night itself. He got the fire going and lifted the wolf from the sheet and took the sheet to the creek and crouched in the dark and washed the blood out of it and brought it back and he cut forked sticks from a mountain hackberry and drove them into the ground with a rock and hung the sheet on a trestlepole where it steamed in the firelight like a burning scrim standing in a wilder-ness where celebrants of some sacred passion had been carried off by rival sects or perhaps had simply fled in the night at the fear of their own doing. He pulled the blanket about his shoulders and sat shiver-ing in the cold and waiting for the dawn that he could find the place where he would bury the wolf. After a while the horse came up from the creek trailing the wet reins through the leaves and stood at the edge of the fire. He fell asleep with his hands palm up before him like some dozing penitent. When he woke it was still dark. The fire had died to a few low flames seething over the coals. He took off his hat and fanned the fire 1 A sloping mass of rock debris at the base of a cliff 2 Steep slopes with it and coaxed it back and fed the wood heíd gathered. He looked for the horse but could not see it. The coyotes were still calling all along the stone ramparts of the Pilares and it was graying faintly in the east. He squatted over the wolf and touched her fur. He touched the cold and perfect teeth. The eye turned to the fire gave back no light and he closed it with his thumb and sat by her and put his hand upon her bloodied forehead and closed his own eyes that he could see her running in the mountains, running in the starlight where the grass was wet and the sunís coming as yet had not undone the rich matrix of creatures passed in the night before her. Deer and hare and dove and groundvole all richly empaneled on the air for her delight, all nations of the possible world ordained by God of which she was one among and not separate from. Where she ran the cries of the coyotes clapped shut as if a door had closed upon them and all was fear and marvel. He took up her stiff head out of the leaves and held it or he reached to hold what cannot be held, what already ran among the mountains at once terrible and of a great beauty, like flowers that feed on flesh. What blood and bone are made of but can themselves not make on any altar nor by any wound of war. What we may well believe has power to cut and shape and hollow out the dark form of the world surely if wind can, if rain can. But which cannot be held never be held and is no flower but is swift and a huntress and the wind itself is in terror of it and the world cannot lose it.


SA
The passage from The Crossing conveys a sense of awe and mystery, and in doing so, imparts the depths of the man's emotions towards the wolf. The mourning for the wolf is raised to an elegiac level, as the man reflects upon the wolf, "a tone terrible and of a great beauty." Several devices are employed to effectively enhance the tone of reverence and loss, including figurative language, diction, sentence structure, rhythm, and repetition.

The pace of the passage fluctuates, alternating from short, detached sentences such as "He squatted over the wolf and touched her fur. He touched the cold and perfect teeth," to unusually long sentences, which are connected by conjunctions (mostly "and") and serve to reflect the outpouring of emotions and the blurred response the man is experiencing, as in lines 41-47 ("The eye... before her"). This dichotomy in sentence structure emphasizes the periods where the man is overcome by remembrances and extrapolations.

The figurative language interspersed within the passage is also highly effective, causing an air of mystery, wonder, and respect. This mood is set when the cries of the coyotes are described as "seeming to have no origin other than the night itself." The analogy of the sheet steaming (lines 21-24) enhances the aura of power and sacredness by diction such as "celebrants of some sacred passion" and "burning screen. " This sense of religious power is again by his companion to a "dozing penitante." A sense of the awe-inspiring mixture of terror and beauty is evidenced when the narrator compares the wolf’s soul to "flowers that feed on flesh," introducing an element of both horror and reverence. This highlights how "all was fear and marvel" regarding the wolf.

The repetition of certain phrases and words emphasizes the ideas behind them.
For example, "What we may well believe has power to cut and shape and hollow out of the dark form of the world, surely if wind can, if rain can..." This repetition contained within this sentence really clarifies the point that our beliefs shape our perception.

Also, the repetition of "and" throughout the passage, as in lines 15-21, brings a rhythm to the passage while providing a sense of the man not really realizing what he is doing, only going through the motions.

The unspecific pronoun "he" actually provides a contrast, where the grief of the man becomes more poignant. The passage metamorphosizes from a more detached account about man's treatment of the body to a touching scene where the man reflects upon the wolf and her spirit.

The final passage, and especially the last line, is made more important by the reflections of the man. The last line is particularly emphasized by the complete lack of punctuation, which Conveys the magnitude of the man's loss. His utter grief over losing the wolf is fully revealed to the reader, especially in the last words:

"But which cannot be held, never be held, and is no flower but is swift and a huntress, and the wind itself is in terror of it and the world cannot lose it."

The importance of the wolf's role in "the possible word ordained by God, of which she was one among and not separate from" is made known to the reader through the man’s thoughts and actions.

In doing so, and in the setting (with the sun beginning to faintly gray the east), a mood of respectful reverence and wonderful power is created. The man is shown to be deeply impacted by his experience.


R

Directions:
The score you assign should reflect your judgment of the quality of the essay
as a whole. Reward the writers for what they do well. The score for an
exceptionally well-written essay may be raised by one point from the score
otherwise appropriate. In no case may a poorly written essay be scored higher
than 3.

 9-8: The writers of these well-constructed essays define the dramatic nature of the experience
described in Cormac McCarthy's passage and ably demonstrate how the author conveys
the impact of the experience upon the main character. Having fashioned a convincing
thesis about the character's reaction to the death of the wolf, these writers support their
assertions by analyzing the use of specific literary techniques (such as point of view,
syntax, imagery, or diction) that prove fundamental to their understanding of McCarthy's
narrative design. They make appropriate references to the text to illustrate their
argument. Although not without flaws, these essays reflect the writer's ability to control
a wide range of the elements of effective writing to provide a keen analysis of a literary
text.

7-6: Developing a sound thesis, these writers discuss with clarity and conviction both the
character's response to the death of the wolf and certain techniques used to convey the
impact this experience has upon the main character. These essays may not be entirely
responsive to the rich suggestiveness of the passage or as precise in describing the
dramatic impact of the event. Although they provide specific references to the text, the
analysis is less persuasive and perhaps less sophisticated than papers in the 9-8 range:
they seem less insightful or less controlled, they develop fewer techniques, or their
discussion of details may be more limited. Nonetheless, they confirm the writer's ability
to read literary texts with comprehension and to write with organization and control.

5: These essays construct a reasonable if reductive thesis; they attempt to link the author's
literary techniques to the reader's understanding of the impact of the experience on the
main character. However, the discussion may be superficial, pedestrian, and/or lacking in
consistent control. The organization may be ineffective or not fully realized. The
analysis is less developed, less precise, and less convincing than that of upper half
essays; misinterpretations of particular references or illustrations may detract from the
overall effect.

4-3: These essays attempt to discuss the impact of this dramatic experience upon the main
character ó and perhaps mention one or more techniques used by McCarthy to effect
this end. The discussion, however, may be inaccurate or undeveloped. These writers may
misread the passage in an essential way, rely on paraphrase, or provide only limited
attention to technique. Illustrations from the text tend to be misconstrued, inexact, or
omitted altogether. The writing may be sufficient to convey ides, although typically it is
characterized by weak diction, syntax, grammar, or organization. Essays scored three are
even less able and may not refer to technique at all.

2-1: These essays fail to respond adequately to the question. They may demonstrate confused
thinking and/or consistent weaknesses in grammar or another basic element of
composition. They are often unacceptably brief. Although the writer may have made
some attempt to answer the question, the views presented have little clarity or coherence;
significant problems with reading comprehension seem evident. Essays that are
especially inexact, vacuous, and/or mechanically unsound should be scored 1.

0: A response with no more than a reference to the task. 
